So let's have a quick look at Amazon FSx,
and Amazon FSx is where to get manage file systems
on AWS.
So, we can go ahead and create a file system,
and you have to choose between multiple options,
and the one you need to know for sure
for the exam are going to be these four ones.
If more are added over time,
unless they appear on the exam,
I will not update this lecture,
just to keep it super simple.
So here we have FSx for Lustre, and that's
to provide a Lustre file system for your workload,
and you can just enter the file system details.
You can get a deployment and storage type,
which has, gives you better overage performance.
You can choose your throughput, and so on,
and then the place within your VPC,
and choose any level of encryption.
So we don't need to know that many details
about each file system, okay?
Just that there's Persistent
and Scratch file systems options for Lustre.
Next, if I go back to Amazon FSx for Windows File Server,
this is the way to get a Windows File Server on AWS,
and it's accessible using the Server Message Block,
SMB protocol.
So if we look quickly at the option,
we can do Multi AZ or Single AZ, which is good for Dev.
The Multi AZ is good as well.
The storage type, SSD or HDD, the full gift capacity depends
on the storage capacity, so if you put,
for example, one 10,000 gigabytes,
then we're going to get some options for gift capacity.
We can deposit into a specific VPC.
We can enable Windows authentication
with Active Directory integration,
either through a host, active host directory on AWS,
or a Self-managed Microsoft Active Directory.
And we get encryption, and then we can get more options,
such as auditing, access, main,
backup and maintenance, and so on.
Now for Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP is
to get the NetApp ONTAP popular file system onto AWS,
and the main feature is that it's compatible
with Linux, Windows, and macOS, okay,
and then, you also get access to a really good performance.
So in that case, we can have a look
at the file system options, where we again,
we have Multi AZ or Single AZ,
we specify a storage type capacity
and whether or not we want storage efficiency,
such as features, such as deduplication,
compression, and compaction, okay?
So this is where we quick create,
and standard create, it gives you more option,
but then again, you just need to know this file system
at the high level.
And finally, Amazon FSx for OpenZFS,
and this is to have a ZFS file system on AWS,
which is compatible with Linux, Windows, and macOS as well,
and again, I would invite you to explore the options.
But at a high level, from an exam perspective,
you need to know the differences
between these four options, okay, and all the details
to choose which one is right was in the previous lecture.
So that's it for this lecture.
I hoped you liked it, and I will see you
in the next lecture.